#summary Yubikey KSM Synchronization Monitor
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

= YK-KSM Synchronization Monitor =

If you deploy multiple redundant YK-KSM instances, it is important to
monitor them to make sure the data they have is synchronized.  While
there are many mechanisms to achieve this, we provide a simple yet
flexible approach.  The 'ykksm-checksum' script reads out the
important fields from the database and computes a SHA-1 hash of it,
and truncates the hash to 10 hex characters and prints them to stdout.

The "important fields" are serial number, public name, internal name
and AES key.

The script requires the Perl SHA-1 package.  Install it like this:

{{{
user@ksm:~$ sudo apt-get install libdigest-sha1-perl
...
user@ksm:~$ 
}}}

The typical way to use this is either manually or to run it in a cron
job and output the hash to a file that can be downloaded by a remote
monitor system such as Nagios.

{{{
user@ksm:~$ sudo sh -c 'cat > /etc/cron.hourly/run-ykksm-checksum'
#!/bin/sh
FILE=/var/www/checksum.txt
(date --utc +%s; ykksm-checksum --db-user ykksmreader --db-passwd `grep password /etc/ykksm/ykksm-config.php|cut -d\  -f3|cut -d\" -f2`) > $FILE.tmp
mv $FILE.tmp $FILE
user@ksm:~$ sudo chmod +x /etc/cron.hourly/run-ykksm-checksum
}}}

If you notice mismatches, you may want to run ykksm-checksum with the
'-v' parameter on the different hosts and then use 'diff -ur' or
similar tool to compare the outputs.  This should make it possible to
identify the missmatching entries easily.
